All right.
Well look, welcome everyone. Um, thank you for coming along.
We are looking forward to what you're gonna be able
to enlighten with on, uh, what you,
what you have haven't done, how long it's been
around the equestrian safety issues.
Uh, you know, the kind of issues that we left you with.
You can probably remember them better than we can now,
but, um, we will soon reacquaint ourselves a little bit.
Um, we'll leave it over to you to say what you wanna say
and then, um, we will get some questions. Okay.
Um, so we'll just give you an update on what's happened
since, since April.
So, since April, uh,
the Minister's rules reform program has been announced.
So the Ministry of Transport's now assisting the minister
with a rolling program of rules reform.
Uh, included in that is a change to the passing distances
around, uh, this is pedestrians, uh, cyclists, uh,
that's due to be going out, uh, for decisions.
We're hoping to get decisions June of next year.
Um, and it's based on the accessible streets,
uh, piece of work.
It also includes things like safety for, uh,
children on footpaths, on, on, on bicycles, uh, e scooters
and cycle lanes, a range of other things.
So that's the main thing, um,
that's happened since we last met.
Um, and the other, the petition is others' concerns around,
uh, the road user rule, uh,
that may be on a future rules reform program,
but that's yet to be decided.
Um, it's not currently on our rules reform program.
Uh, and the, that's,
that's truly it in in our space.
I'll pass onto what's happening with NCTA.
Sure. So, um, look from the NCTA perspective, uh, we have
continued to run social media content against all our
channels, including linking in to promote the past wide
and slow events run by that organization.
Um, we also previously, I believe, acknowledged
that there wasn't much content in the learner driver
instructors manual covering
what people should do when they encounter horses
and riders on the road.
We have now updated that manual, um,
and there is that content in there.
Um, as well as that, um, about, I think it's 15%
of learner license tests taken this year have included, um,
the horse rider question.
So there's 35 questions and we've got a bank
and they're selected at random for each test.
Um, and thankfully there is about a 98% pass rate for
that question, which is one of our highest overall.
So all of those things have happened in the last,
uh, last few months.
Good, good. Well done, well done.
Um, any questions, colleagues?
So, so can you just, can you spell out a little bit more the
work that's been done in terms of the rules reform?
That sounds like, it sounds like a whacking great omnibus
of all sorts of things.
Yeah. And obviously you said that, you said the passing,
the passing bit, so we've got vulnerable users, so presume
that's bike for bikes, horses, um, et cetera.
Yeah. So, um, well, I'll run through the whole lot.
Um, uh, so the minister in June announced the program
looking out over the coming years.
So, uh, the first one you, you will have heard is frequency
of, uh, inspections for vintage, uh, cars.
Mm-hmm. Uh, getting that from six to 12 months.
Uh, we are looking at further safety
requirements for vehicle imports.
That's another rule that's being developed.
Um, the frequency of WAF
and cough are requirements for all light vehicles.
That's one that's under development,
heavy vehicle driver licensing, um,
the digital driver's license.
Uh mm-hmm. And now we're into next year, uh, which takes us
to the la uh, lane use and use of traffic control devices.
So that is e scooters to use cycle lanes
and children to ride bikes on footpaths, uh,
minimum overtaking gaps.
Uh, that's the 1.5 meter taking gap, uh, requiring vehicles
to give away the buses exiting bus stops.
I believe, uh, Damien O'Connor raised
that last time when we were here.
Um, and changes to various traffic control devices, signs,
sort of minor and technical stuff.
Cool. Oh, and then finally after that,
the vehicle regulatory system a, a bigger bit of work.
Uh, and we're gonna start work on that in May of next year.
So if you could, if you could all, all of
that's on the ministry's website
and on the beehive website. Oh.
But it would be great to, if you can give, give a Yeah,
absolutely a link to us that, that would
be, that would be great.
That's really good. Quite a few of those I recognize
as being things that have been asked for quite a long time.
Yeah. So yeah, very familiar with some of those. Yeah. Cool.
Hey, are there any questions?
Otherwise, it's gonna be very short.
Now look, that's really good progress.
So we look forward to, um, further progress.
So there are other things
that we did have, I'm trying to remember back.
One of them was the data on horse related incidents.
Um, have you looked into that at all?
Yes. So, uh,
Because there are a whole lot
of different databases all saying different things.
Yeah. So there are a whole lot
of databases saying different things.
Um, there is a sample
size issue here.
So when we, when we look into it that there are very few,
uh, of these events simply
'cause there are very few courses on the
roads compared to other road users.
So, uh, CAS has got eight, uh, equestrian deaths from,
uh, over the last 44 years.
Um, in the context of, you know, we have about three
to 400 sadly, uh, this year in New Zealand.
We use all of those data sets.
So we use our data, we use health NZ data, we use a CC data,
uh, when we're, when we're making decisions, um,
we haven't yet linked that data up.
Um, I'm, I'm in charge of that part of the ministry as well.
What we are trying to do is see if we can get more
of our data into the integrated data infrastructure,
which overcomes quite a lot of the privacy issues.
Uh, but you can see the data we use in our road safety
objectives reporting, which is quarterly.
So does that, sorry, this is a slightly wider question,
but does, does that mean that you are, you're gonna try
and link these together because CAS is a base gotta report
the thing in the first place, which doesn't always happen.
I think the general observations, the a CC data is, tends
to be fuller than the CAS data.
Although if you don't get injured then you
know, you're not in the a CCC one.
So they're different. So,
Yeah. Yeah. So
no one really has a good near
misses database anywhere now.
Yeah. Well I know that Is just that one
of the things they were calling for
and trying to record something
that didn't happen is quite hard to do.
Yeah. Okay. And the penalty regime, which is another part
'cause it's okay, it's one thing to say Yep.
Past 1.5 meters and go slow. Yep. That's part of it as well.
Uh, the, the road code's actually really helpful on that.
And the new, uh, on the, the NZTA website,
it's abundantly clear, uh,
after saying what you should do,
there's a big box with a highlight.
You know, if you're not careful, you could be charged
with careless or dangerous.
So, uh, our fee, our fines work
are still considering, uh,
and we are looking at the highest risk, uh,
driving behaviors.
Uh, but all of the guidance is quite clear that careless
and dangerous does apply to, uh,
passing dangerously near an animal.
It's, and it's in the road code.
And what's the fine for that?
Uh, careless
and dangerous, uh,
causing injury you can be as much as $20,000
for, you know, dangerous driving.
Yeah. Um, careless 3000.
There's also penalties of injuries involved. Yeah.
So are all of these, 'cause there's also a review
of penalties being done at the moment.
Yeah. You might have seen the minister
and the media last night.
Yeah. So is that all, all of these things being thought
through in that context as well?
Uh, not careless and dangerous.
Uh, we are looking, uh, at a broad range of things that's,
I can't really talk about it while the
minister's still considering unifies.
It's, it's just, we've got submissions on the bill.
Fact, some of the, the parts
of the bill we've just heard submissions on.
Oh, right. The regulatory, um, systems.
There's a a lot there about the fines of a whole range
of things which haven't been touched again for
that 25 years or so.
Five years. Yeah. Uh, and lifting a whole lot of those.
But of course if you lift all of those in,
in some different ways, then the, then what's the relativity
with the, a more, a more serious,
something we decided previously was more serious
and then, you know, you understand
Yeah. Those, those relativity
cause you problems. Yeah.
All over the place. Yeah. Yeah.
Okay. We might keep an eye on that one. Ken, just
One question. When you hear about,
uh, is there a, there like a, um,
slide on e scooters?
'cause we've had a submitted earlier today talking about,
um, e scooters are causing problems and,
and listing that as proposed be lifting the, the wattage,
the engine capability
because there a, is there like a
code of practice for e scooters?
I'm not talking about license, but is there like a
traffic devices?
Is it a stand on basically asking, is there a standalone
e scooter or electric bike thing?
Uh, the, the way it works is, um, most of the sort
of code conduct type things are actually done by councils
through their licensing regime.
Regime, um, the go companies.
So it's a little bit more tricky with those
who import them independently.
Private discuss. Certainly like no, there's not a,
Yeah, yeah. Alright.
It's more regulated through.
Cool. Cool. Okay. Cool. Great. Good, good.
Um, some of these points have just been made, some
of these are not on the scope of this,
but we, we don't wanna think, we don't wanna,
we don't wanna think too much in silos
and we've been talking about something earlier today.
We might as well try leave. There's so much for horses.
Is there anything else you wanted to add or we all good?
No, good, good. We, we'll keep,
we'll keep an eye on what you're doing.
Um, and, um,
because I, I know our equestrian community is also, um,
close, probably tune, probably
tuning in, watching what we're doing.
Absolutely. They've been alerted to this. Uh, so we are,
we are very anxious to see that there are changes made, uh,
to, um, to keep, uh, riders on the road
and their horses safer.
Mm-hmm. Absolutely. Yeah. So, thank you very much.
Thank you for, we were.